# Conclusions

This project examined different dimensions of the built environment to make conclusions on how our environments affect the spread of diseases like COVID-19.

In assessing how **public transportation impacts the spread of COVID-19,** we found that states with the highest COVID-19 prevalences tend to also have the highest proportion of residents using public transit to commute to work. _This suggests that in aggregate, built environments that encourages public transportation usage also have higher disease transmission potentially as a result of public transportation usage._ This is a limited conclusion, since states with effective public transportation usage also tend to have higher density which may also contribute to disease spread. Additionally, there was actually an inverse correlation between COVID-19 prevalence and subway traffic among New York City boroughs. Although many people commute in Manhattan for work, their health status is not counted in Manhattan because they are residents of different counties. Thus, our conclusion is accurate across states but not necessarily within cities which have complications in how cases are counted and where people commute.

In exploring how **housing environments affect the spread of disease,** we found no clear correlation between the number of units per housing structure and COVID-19 cases. We also found no clear correlation between the proportion of housing units that are "crowded" with more than 1 person per room and COVID-19 cases. _This suggests that in aggregate, built environments have similar disease transmission across housing profiles._ Perhaps this is because our state-level analysis overlooks that states consist of numerous communities with very different housing profiles and disease transmission. Future research should determine at a county- or community-level how housing profiles affect disease transmission.

In determining how **job environments affect the spread of disease,** we found that states of low COVID-19 prevalence tend to have more jobs in food services, manufacturing, administration, construction, and government than states of high COVID-19 prevalence. We also found that states of high COVID-19 prevalence tend to have more jobs in health care, education, finance, and professional services than states of low COVID-19 prevalence. We could make no clear conclusions on this topic. This analysis has a limitation where these job proportions effectively indicate how developed each state is rather than how workplace environment affects COVID-19 transmission.

In finding whether **COVID-19 spread correlates with seasonal influenza,** we found that there is a generally positive correlation between the volume of COVID-19 cases so far and the influenza cases in the 2017-18 flu season. _This suggests that the built environment of New York City contributes to the spread of COVID-19 and influenza in comparable ways at different magnitudes._ Thus, conclusions we make using COVID-19 data could be similar to conclusions we could make using data from influenza or other transmissible diseases.

Overall, it seems that the built environment does have some impact on the spread of disease. Built environments that support public transportation tend to have more COVID-19 cases than those that don't. Built environments that support similar kinds of jobs tend to have similar COVID-19 prevalences. However, we found that it is very challenging to do research on this using aggregate data. Future research should focus on a specific aspect of the built environment in specific cities in order to produce the most impactful results.
