As with any infectious disease, the built environment has played a very important role in the transmission of COVID-19 around the globe. The built environment, or ‘built world’ refers to the human-made environment that provides the setting for human activity, ranging in scale from buildings, to neighborhoods, to cities and beyond. For our INFO 478 final project, our team was interested in exploring the association between a few core factors of the built environment in various settings, and the severity of the coronavirus pandemic in those places. Being that COVID-19 is an actively developing pandemic, quantitative data analyses of this nature are very challenging - particularly because data collection practices differ so dramatically from place to place! Fortunately, we were able to explore a number of interesting questions using publicly available data:

- How do transportation patterns correlate with the volume of COVID-19 infections?
- How does housing density correlate with the volume of COVID-19 infections across the United States?
- How does the job environment correlate with the volume of COVID-19 infections across the United States?
- How does the volume of COVID-19 infections compare to the volume of seasonal influenza infections within different neighborhoods of New York City?

Thank you for your interest in this project! Our curiosities surrounding the built environment and its impact on disease transmission will certainly continue to develop long after the end of this course as coronavirus rages on around the world, but the findings displayed in the subsequent pages of this application will serve as a great foundation moving forward!