# Analysis

The scatterplot above compares an early case count of COVID-19 to the cumulative case count of seasonal influenza during the 2017-2018 season in five different boroughs (or counties) within New York City. The scales of these two infectious illnesses are obviously quite different; over the course of a few months, coronavirus has already infected far more individuals than seasonal influenza does each year. However, this scatterplot shows us that there is generally an association between the volume of COVID-19 cases and the volume of seasonal influenza cases within each of the boroughs of NYC. While one might expect to see a more linear trend, indicating that the impacts of these two illnesses in each borough are directly relative to one another, we actually see that the volume of COVID-19 cases in the Bronx and Queens was much higher relative to the number of seasonal influenza cases recorded in those boroughs in 2017-2018.

In order to take a closer look at these relationships, we calculated the proportion of total cases of COVID-19 and seasonal influenza respectively which each NYC borough contributed. The results of this analysis can be seen in the table above. Richmond County (otherwise known as Staten Island) accounted for the fewest COVID-19 and seasonal influenza cases - this makes logical sense, because it is by far the most isolated part of New York City. While New York County (or Manhattan) contributed the second lowest proportion of COVID-19 cases in New York city, it contributed the third lowest proportion of seasonal influenza cases by a narrow margin (with the Bronx reflecting the inverse, ranking third lowest in COVID-19 cases, and second lowest in influenza cases). Kings County (a.k.a. Brooklyn) and Queens contributed the highest proportions of both illnesses, again inversed with Brooklyn ranking second highest for COVID-19 contributions and highest for seasonal influenza contributions, and Queens ranking highest for COVID-19 contributions and second highest for seasonal influenza contributions.

By breaking a city into different neighborhoods or boroughs and assessing the volume of various infectious diseases reported in each, we are able to ask some questions about the diversity of built environments within a concentrated and highly populated metropolitan area. Knowing how "bustling" Manhattan is in comparison to the other boroughs of New York City, we were surprised to find that it didn't outrank all of the other boroughs for COVID-19 or seasonal influenza cases. This may very well be an indicartion of the commercial nature of Manhattan versus the other boroughs of the city where far more New Yorkers take residence. Overall, it is difficult to draw any strong conclusions from this analysis because the epidemiological curve of COVID-19 is still developing. In the future, it would be interesting to compare COVID-19 cases in different NYC boroughs to H1N1 cases from the 2009 swine flu pandemic - these outbreaks operated at more similar scales than COVID and seasonal influanza, so it may be easier to draw comparisons between the two.